docs/frontEnd.md, before:

# FrontEnd: Install ReactJS on Ubuntu VM, Then Deploy ReactJS Docker Alpine Container

If you haven't installed Docker, refer to our
[Ubuntu Docker Install Guide](./dockerInstallUbuntu.md)

1\. Install npm (also installs node.js) on Ubuntu VM host if its not installed:

~~~bash
sudo apt-get install -y curl
# Mu installed Node 12.13.0, Npm 7.18.1.
curl -fsSL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_12.x | sudo bash
sudo apt-get install -y nodejs

sudo apt -y install npm
~~~

<!-- **Optional**: Install create-react-app in case you need to create a new react app:

~~~bash
sudo npm -g install create-react-app@4.0.3
~~~

**Optional**: Create React SC_Clinical_Trials_Tracker:

~~~bash
create-react-app scct_tracker
~~~ -->

2\. Let's change to **mytrial-fe** directory:

~~~bash
cd $pwd/Stem-Cell-Clinical-Trials-Tracker/mytrial-fe
~~~

3\. Build and tag the Docker image for our ReactJS **mytrial-fe** app:

~~~bash
# Installs Node.js 13.12, npm 6.14.4
sudo docker build -t mytrial-fe:dev .
~~~

4\. Launch a Docker container named **mytrial_rjs_client** for our ReactJS app with code based from **mytrial-fe** folder:

~~~bash
sudo docker run -it \
    --name mytrial_rjs_client \
    -v ${PWD}:/mytrial-fe \
    -v /mytrial-fe/node_modules \
    -p 3001:3000 \
    -e CHOKIDAR_USEPOLLINNG=true \
    --network=frontend \
    mytrial-fe:dev
~~~

<!-- Check node version and npm version inside docker container scct_tracker -->

- `docker run` creates and runs a new container instance from the linux alpine image we just created
- `-it` starts the docker container in interactive mode
- `-v ${PWD}:/mytrial-fe` mounts the ReactJS code from Ubuntu VM host into the container at "/mytrial-fe"
- `-v /mytrial-fe/node_modules` configured another volume to use the container version of "node_modules" folder
- `-p 3001:3000` exposes the port 3000 to other Docker containers on the same network and port 3001 to the host
- `-e CHOKIDAR_USEPOLLINNG=true` enables a polling mechanism via **chokidar** so that hot-reloading will work

5\. Open your Ubuntu VM's browser http://localhost:3001/ and you should see the app. You can make a change to the `App` component within your code editor and see the app hot-reload.

If you need to get into the Docker alpine's container, execute the following command: 

~~~bash
sudo docker exec -it scct_tracker /bin/ash
~~~

**Optional**\. If you want to open the ReactJS app in your Windows or Mac host machine's browser outside the Ubuntu VM, if you are running your Ubuntu VM on Virtualbox, click:

- **Settings** -> **Network** -> **Advanced** -> **Port Forwarding** -> 

Add a new Port Forwarding Rule with following properties:

~~~bash
Name = SCCTT_ReactJS
Protocol = TCP
Host Port = 30001
Guest Port = 3001
~~~

Click OK, then OK again for the port forwarding to be saved. Then from your host machine's browser, access link: http://localhost:3001/ 

## Reference

- [Dockerizing a React App](https://mherman.org/blog/dockerizing-a-react-app/)
- [How to Install ReactJS on Ubuntu](https://www.tecmint.com/install-reactjs-on-ubuntu/)
- [NodeSource Node.js Binary Distributions](https://github.com/nodesource/distributions)
- [Hot Reloading in React](https://medium.com/@dan_abramov/hot-reloading-in-react-1140438583bf)

Commit message:

Updated Full Stack Docker Deployment Docs, Now Integration Works
- I am able to deploy MySQL Server docker container, then
deploy SpringBoot Server docker container, I am able to see
that SpringBoot fetches the data successfully from the MySQL
mytrial db from its org table and see it display to the browser.
Similarly, I am able to deploy ReactJS docker container and
see that it successfully connects with SpringBoot docker container
to request SpringBoot to get data from MySQL mytrial db and
that data moves from SpringBoot to ReactJS to be displayed in theb
browser for page like http://localhost:3001/trials/000000050

- Wrote testOrgController to quickly test that SpringBoot can
get data from our mytrial db's org table and display it to the
browser

- In testing org controller, I found a small bug in
OrganizationRepository.java code, updated sql statement to be
'select * from org'. Mainly I changed organization to org.

- Updated mytrial-fe to set environment variable, so user
can set spring boot REACT_APP_BASE_URL, so react can make api
calls to connect to spring boot.

- Updated settings index.js, so we can pass that
env var REACT_APP_BASE_URL to reactjs MYTRIAL_API

docs/frontEnd.md, after:

# FrontEnd: Install ReactJS on Ubuntu VM, Then Deploy ReactJS Docker Alpine Container

If you haven't installed Docker, refer to our
[Ubuntu Docker Install Guide](./dockerInstallUbuntu.md)

1\. Install npm (also installs node.js) on Ubuntu VM host if its not installed:

~~~bash
sudo apt-get install -y curl
# Mu installed Node 12.13.0, Npm 7.18.1.
curl -fsSL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_12.x | sudo bash
sudo apt-get install -y nodejs

sudo apt -y install npm
~~~

<!-- **Optional**: Install create-react-app in case you need to create a new react app:

~~~bash
sudo npm -g install create-react-app@4.0.3
~~~

**Optional**: Create React SC_Clinical_Trials_Tracker:

~~~bash
create-react-app scct_tracker
~~~ -->

2\. Let's change to **mytrial-fe** directory:

~~~bash
cd $pwd/Stem-Cell-Clinical-Trials-Tracker/mytrial-fe
~~~

3\. Build and tag the Docker image for our ReactJS **mytrial-fe** app:

~~~bash
# Installs Node.js 13.12, npm 6.14.4
sudo docker build -t mytrial-fe:dev .
~~~

4\. Launch a Docker container named **mytrial_rjs_client** for our ReactJS app with code based from **mytrial-fe** folder:

~~~bash
# REACT_APP_API_BASE_URL uses localhost since communication between react and sb happens on localhost
sudo docker run -it \
    --name mytrial_rjs_client \
    -v ${PWD}:/mytrial-fe \
    -v /mytrial-fe/node_modules \
    -p 3001:3000 \
    -e REACT_APP_API_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8080 \
    -e CHOKIDAR_USEPOLLINNG=true \
    --network=frontend \
    mytrial-fe:dev
~~~

<!-- Check node version and npm version inside docker container scct_tracker -->

- `docker run` creates and runs a new container instance from the linux alpine image we just created
- `-it` starts the docker container in interactive mode
- `-v ${PWD}:/mytrial-fe` mounts the ReactJS code from Ubuntu VM host into the container at "/mytrial-fe"
- `-v /mytrial-fe/node_modules` configured another volume to use the container version of "node_modules" folder
- `-p 3001:3000` exposes the port 3000 to other Docker containers on the same network and port 3001 to the host
- `-e CHOKIDAR_USEPOLLINNG=true` enables a polling mechanism via **chokidar** so that hot-reloading will work

5\. Open your Ubuntu VM's browser http://localhost:3001/ and you should see the app. You can make a change to the `App` component within your code editor and see the app hot-reload.

If you need to get into the Docker alpine's container, execute the following command: 

~~~bash
sudo docker exec -it scct_tracker /bin/ash
~~~

**Optional**\. If you want to open the ReactJS app in your Windows or Mac host machine's browser outside the Ubuntu VM, if you are running your Ubuntu VM on Virtualbox, click:

- **Settings** -> **Network** -> **Advanced** -> **Port Forwarding** -> 

Add a new Port Forwarding Rule with following properties:

~~~bash
Name = SCCTT_ReactJS
Protocol = TCP
Host Port = 30001
Guest Port = 3001
~~~

Click OK, then OK again for the port forwarding to be saved. Then from your host machine's browser, access link: http://localhost:3001/ 

## Reference

- [Dockerizing a React App](https://mherman.org/blog/dockerizing-a-react-app/)
- [How to Install ReactJS on Ubuntu](https://www.tecmint.com/install-reactjs-on-ubuntu/)
- [NodeSource Node.js Binary Distributions](https://github.com/nodesource/distributions)
- [Hot Reloading in React](https://medium.com/@dan_abramov/hot-reloading-in-react-1140438583bf)
